---
title: Daniel 3:1-12
Template: outline
Author: "John Wry"
titleIcon: "far fa-file-alt"
---

This is the account of Nebuchadnezzar's Image - False Worship

Man by default is religious. He will bow to something. God created man in his image. Mankind creates gods in their image. Romans 1:18-32

Worshipping God in our own way is also adultery. 

Even though we might not bow down to any statue we can 'bow' to gods in our hearts and minds. 

Why did Nebuchadnezzar build this image? He was thinking about this since God spoke to him in the dream and visions, except he distorted it to his own benefit. 

Is it possible that Nebuchadnezzar was dreaming of building a statue before God spoke to him? Certainly somehow they are related. Did God meet Nebuchadnezzar where he was at or did Nebuchadnezzar twist what God had said to his favour, so that all rule will be his? 

At the end of Daniel 4, Nebuchadnezzar apparently believes in God, but at this point he is still ignorant of the all sovereign God of the universe. Nebuchadnezzar is thinking his is the greatest power. 

>Dan 3:1  Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, the height of which was sixty cubits and its width six cubits; he set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon.

60x6 = 10 to 1. This is the dimensions of obelisks.


>Dan 3:2  Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent word to assemble the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates and all the rulers of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

Babylon's way is work the top and move down 

>Dan 3:3  Then the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates and all the rulers of the provinces were assembled for the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.

[**Rev 17:2** ](verseid:66.17.2) *with whom the kings of the earth committed acts ofimmorality, and those who dwell on the earth were made drunk with the wine of her immorality."*

[**Rev 18:3** ](verseid:66.18.3) *"For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the passion of her immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed acts ofimmorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the wealth of her sensuality."*

>Dan 3:4  Then the herald loudly proclaimed: "To you the command is given, O peoples, nations and men of every language,

First the leaders, now get the people to follow. Everybody drinks of Babylon's wine.

>Dan 3:5  that at the moment you hear the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe and all kinds of music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up.

Music is also used a lot within pagan worship. 

>Dan 3:6  "But whoever does not fall down and worship shall immediately be cast into the midst of a furnace of blazing fire."

Worship or be burned

>Dan 3:7  Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe and all kinds of music, all the peoples, nations and men of every language fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

The sound of music is generally associated with gladness. This was brought on from idolatry. God will destroy all music from Babylon becuase of her idolatry and treatment of God's people over the ages. 

Revelation 18:22, "*And the sound of harpists, musicians, flute players, and trumpeters will never be heard in you again; and no craftsman of any craft will ever be found in you again; and the sound of a mill will never be heard in you again;"*

>Dan 3:8  For this reason at that time certain Chaldeans came forward and brought charges against the Jews.

Chaldeans don't like these three men being superior

>Dan 3:9  They responded and said to Nebuchadnezzar the king: "O king, live forever!

They respected the king God had placed.

>Dan 3:10  "You, O king, have made a decree that every man who hears the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, and bagpipe and all kinds of music, is to fall down and worship the golden image.

[**Rev 18:16** ](verseid:66.18.16) *saying, 'Woe, woe, the great city, she who was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls;*

>Dan 3:11  "But whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into the midst of a furnace of blazing fire.

Worship or die. Death motivates the world becuase death reigns. Romans 5:12-21

>Dan 3:12  "There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the administration of the province of Babylon, namely Shadrach, Meshach and Abed-nego. These men, O king, have disregarded you; they do not serve your gods or worship the golden image which you have set up."

Some mistakenly say that the statue was about worshipping him but verse 14 clearly shows it was to 'his gods'. 

> Daniel 3:14 - Nebuchadnezzar says '*Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach and Abed-nego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image that I have set up?*'

