---
title: Acts 28:23
date: 2015-02-06
layout: post
category: bible
tags: acts, 
---
## Acts 28:23

There's nothing like watching a movie or reading a book and getting to the climax only to end and of course the story continues in a sequel.  This is true of the story of Paul. We don't know what happened to Paul before Caesar (Nero at the time). Some say he was acquitted and carried on his ministry. The Bible does not say.   So today we have Paul in Rome under house arrest, waiting for his trial. He could not go to the people, so the people came to him. Many came to listen to him. Paul would use the Scriptures (the Law and the Prophets) to show them evidence and proof that Jesus was in fact Messiah. He drew from a source that was familiar to people, showing that the message he taught was not contrary to the Scriptures but rather was the central theme contained therein. He spent long hours persuading people, explaining to them and testifying to them from morning until evening. He did it with detail and care all day long.  

```    "Faith comes by hearing and hearing the word of God" - Rom 10:17 ```

To bring people to faith, one must use the Word of God, the Scriptures. Paul used the Old Testament. Today we have both the Old and the New Testament to share this wonderful news.   If we use the Scriptures correctly, we can point the way to show people (yes even in Canada) that their morality and good things don't satisfy God's requirement for holiness. His standard is nothing lower than perfect. Yet people all over have convinced themselves (deceived by Satan himself) that they aren't as bad as most. Graded on a curve, they would attain the perfection God requires. When Paul used the Scriptures, he pleaded with people to show them their true standing before God and the need for a Saviour. Sugar coating the truth is not going to help. If we love our neighbour, we will show them the truth in love.  God bless 

There's nothing like watching a movie or reading a book and getting to the climax only to end and of course the story continues in a sequel.
This is true of the story of Paul. We don't know what happened to Paul before Caesar (Nero at the time). Some say he was acquitted and carried on his ministry. The Bible does not say.

So today we have Paul in Rome under house arrest, waiting for his trial. He could not go to the people, so the people came to him. Many came to listen to him. Paul would use the Scriptures (the Law and the Prophets) to show them evidence and proof that Jesus was in fact Messiah. He drew from a source that was familiar to people, showing that the message he taught was not contrary to the Scriptures but rather was the central theme contained therein. He spent long hours persuading people, explaining to them and testifying to them from morning until evening. He did it with detail and care all day long.

```     "Faith comes by hearing and hearing the word of God" - Rom 10:17```

To bring people to faith, one must use the Word of God, the Scriptures. Paul used the Old Testament. Today we have both the Old and the New Testament to share this wonderful news.

If we use the Scriptures correctly, we can point the way to show people (yes even in Canada) that their morality and good things don't satisfy God's requirement for holiness. His standard is nothing lower than perfect. Yet people all over have convinced themselves (deceived by Satan himself) that they aren't as bad as most. Graded on a curve, they would attain the perfection God requires. When Paul used the Scriptures, he pleaded with people to show them their true standing before God and the need for a Saviour. Sugar coating the truth is not going to help. If we love our neighbour, we will show them the truth in love.
God bless!