---
title: Romans 12:3
layout: post
category: bible
tags: romans, justification, sanctification, life, faith
---



## Romans 12:3

Romans is a magnificent book. It deals with the fundamentals of the Christian faith, justification, sanctification and glorification. It teaches the means of power over sin and how to live a magnificent Christian life. Chapters 12-16 deal with Christian duties in relation to other believers and society in general. This begins by presenting ourselves in the same manner as the lamb was presented in the Old Testament ceremony as a type of Christ, we now should present our bodies (as living) sacrifices.
In verse 3, Paul is cautioning believers in regards to thinking of ourselves more highly than we ought. Pride has a way of killing service. It has a way of building one's self in an unnatural way to where one thinks more highly of himself that he should. It has a way of making me feel deserving of something when we're reminded here that it's only through grace and faith is something that God has allotted to each.  Faith is something God allotted (share, part, apportion) to each believer for the purpose of putting into practice his spiritual gift or gifts. Verse 6 mentions how if one has the gift of prophecy he should exercise it to the measure or proportion of the faith God has given to him. As one walks with God, this faith will be tested, refined and should grow as in the case of Abraham (Romans 4). A believer who does not exercise faith will not experience the growth that another who is continuously taking steps by faith. This is how it happens that one can come to the end of a christian life without much to show (christian maturity) for it.
So Paul here is interested that we be involved and active in the betterment of the body (which is what Christ is concerned with in this age). Pride will only hinder that and so we must come back to the truth of the Gospel of grace - it is a gift, I did not ever deserve it.