---
Title: John 8:31-44
Template: outline
Author: "John Wry"
titleIcon: "far fa-file-alt"
---

[**Joh 8:31** ](verseid:43.8.31) So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, "If you continue in My word, *then* you are truly disciples of Mine;

[**Joh 8:32** ](verseid:43.8.32) and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free."

[**Joh 8:33** ](verseid:43.8.33) They answered Him, "We are Abraham's descendants and have never yet been enslaved to anyone; how is it that You say, 'You will become free'?"

[**Joh 8:34** ](verseid:43.8.34) Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin.

[**Joh 8:35** ](verseid:43.8.35) "The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son does remain forever.

[**Joh 8:36** ](verseid:43.8.36) "So if the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed.

[**Joh 8:37** ](verseid:43.8.37) "I know that you are Abraham's descendants; yet you seek to kill Me, because My word has no place in you.

[**Joh 8:38** ](verseid:43.8.38) "I speak the things which I have seen with *My* Father; therefore you also do the things which you heard from *your* father."

## You Are of Your Father the Devil

[**Joh 8:39** ](verseid:43.8.39) They answered and said to Him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus *said to them, "If you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham.

[**Joh 8:40** ](verseid:43.8.40) "But as it is, you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God; this Abraham did not do.

[**Joh 8:41** ](verseid:43.8.41) "You are doing the deeds of your father." They said to Him, "We were not born of fornication; we have one Father: God."

[**Joh 8:42** ](verseid:43.8.42) Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love Me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come on My own initiative, but He sent Me.

[**Joh 8:43** ](verseid:43.8.43) "Why do you not understand what I am saying? *It is* because you cannot hear My word.

[**Joh 8:44** ](verseid:43.8.44) "You are of *your* father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own *nature,* for he is a liar and the father of lies.



=====

So Jesus was saying to those Jews 

​	who had believed Him, 

​		"If you continue in My word, 

​			then* you are truly disciples of Mine; 

​				and you will know the truth, 

​					and the truth will make you free."

They answered Him, 

​	"We are Abraham's descendants 

​	and have never yet been enslaved to anyone; 

​	how is it that You say, 

​	'You will become free'?"

Jesus answered them, 

​	"Truly, truly, I say to you, 

​	everyone 

​		who commits sin 

​			is the slave of sin."

​	The slave does not remain in the house forever; 

​	the son does remain forever."

​	So if the Son makes you free, 

​	you will be free indeed."

I know that you are Abraham's descendants; 

yet you seek to kill Me, 

​	because My word has no place in you."

I speak the things 

which I have seen with *My* Father; 

therefore you also do the things 

which you heard from *your* father."

They answered and said to Him, 

​	"Abraham is our father." 

Jesus said to them, 

"If you are Abraham's children, 

do the deeds of Abraham."

But as it is, you are seeking to kill Me, 

​		a man who has told you the truth, 

​			which I heard from God; 

​			this Abraham did not do.

​	"You are doing the deeds of your father." 

They said to Him, 

​	"We were not born of fornication; 

​	we have one Father: God."

## Jesus is the perfect representation of his father

Jesus said to them, 

"If God were your Father, 

you would love Me, 

for I proceeded forth 

and have come from God, 

for I have not even come on My own initiative, 

but He sent Me."

## The Pharisees are a perfect representation of their father the devil

Why do you not understand what I am saying? 

*It is* because you cannot hear My word."

You are of *your* father the devil, 

and you want to do the desires of your father. 

He was a murderer from the beginning, 

and does not stand in the truth 

because there is no truth in him. 

Whenever he speaks a lie, 

he speaks from his own *nature,* 

for he is a liar and the father of lies.
