---


---

**A. Introduction**

prayers for the Weir family at this time. 

With biblical illiteracy at an all-time high in our **western** world, I believe there is a great need for teaching Scripture at a worldview level.

1. Knowing God, and understanding His ways, inevitably changes our thinking and leads us to a correct **worldview**. Why is this level of understanding important? Because our **worldview** determines our **values** which in turn will determine our **beliefs** which in turn determines our **actions**. 
2. It's unfortunate that a lot of teaching today is focused merely on a change of behavior. This is an incorrect approach to how God has shown us in His word. 
3. My desire this morning is to reveal certain instances where God clearly stepped into time and space to reveal himself, his character, so that man could know who He really was. Knowing God is the basis for a correct worldview. 

## A Relational God

When the Godhead gathered together to discuss the creation of man, they said, "let's make a being who is like us, one who is relational and can communicate feelings, respond to input, gather information, reason etc.". We find God's <u>exact</u> words in Genesis 1 "*Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness*". The fellowship of the Godhead desired to have a relationship with this particular created being. God and man were friends in the beginning just the way God intended. 

We all know the story of the fall of man and what resulted, yet God's intent never changed. He, being relational, wanted a relationship with his created beings.

God has always wanted to be in a relationship with mankind yet now there's an impassable barrier because of sin. Genesis 8:21 says, "*the intent of man's heart is evil from his youth*;" Man does not desire God. Man does not look for God. Man has fallen short of the glory of God.

Yet God continues to be deeply desirous of a relationship with man. Throughout time he has incessantly been revealing his true self to man. He has given visible displays of his attributes through Scripture so we too can learn who He truly is. 

God is perfect. He is perfect in all His **ways** because He **is** perfect. He is perfectly just and loving all at the very same time. Often throughout Scripture, He reveals his holiness and his grace all at once. 

1. For instance: Nothing highlights all of God's **attributes** at once in the OT better than the account of God giving Moses the Ten Commandments followed by His instructions to build the tabernacle.

Ex 25:1-9

1. Immediately upon giving Israel the Law, God knew she would fail to keep it. Yet God provided them a way for their **failures** and sins to be covered until the promised Deliverer would come and remove them altogether. God's justice in the giving of the law is revealed, God's mercy is shown in the tabernacle in how He will dwell with his people. 
2. This is not uncommon. There are other events that clearly show all of these attributes of God at the same time as well...for instance...
   1. Immediately upon God judging Adam and Eve, He gave them the first promise of the coming **Deliverer**.
   2. With Noah and the flood, for 120 years we see God reaching out toward mankind in love and patience. He provided a witness in the form of prophets like Enoch and Noah, the preacher of righteousness. He left the door for salvation open right to the very **end**.
   3. With the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah Abraham asked God if He would destroy the righteous with the unrighteous. Of course, God would never do that. God **removed** righteous Lot before the first hailstone fell.
   4. Now with the giving of the Law and the immediate provision of a tabernacle God who is just, once again proved His love in the face of human **failure**. God’s grace was once again on full display. 

**B. The Big Picture**

1. So, here’s the picture: We have a sinful human race, symbolized by the nation of Israel, and a completely holy, righteous, and almighty Creator God of the universe. These two are separated by the **sinfulness** of the people.
2. Therefore, God had Moses build the tabernacle, the place where He would dwell with His chosen people, Israel. The glory of God dwelled inside the holy of holies, inside the tabernacle located in the middle of Israel’s camp. Though He lived among them, still, because they were sinful, His presence was **separated** by a thick curtain.

## Jesus and the Curtain (Matt 27:45-51)

We come to the NT. The greatest example of all of God revealing himself is in Jesus and specifically on the cross. God is once again revealing he is JUST through the punishment and chastisement of the Lord Jesus.  When Christ took upon himself the sins of the World, God's justice was seen when He turned his back on own His son due to our sin. Yet,  at the very same time God showed He is merciful, ripping in half the curtain of the temple from top to bottom, symbolically showing us that direct access to the Father was now provided through the person and work of Jesus Christ. God was lovingly showing there was a new and better way and that the foreshadow of the tabernacle/temple was now a reality in Christ. 

Heb 10:19-20

In fact, we are invited to come bodly to the throne of Grace. 

> [**Heb 4:16** ](verseid:58.4.16) Therefore let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.



## Conclusion

1. God is **always** about relationships. He loves us so much that He wants us to be able to enjoy closeness and communion with Him. As people we tend to only turn to Him in trust and dependence when we feel desperate. God capitalizes on this tendancy.

Romans 5:20a – *The law came in so that the trespass would* **increase**. 

1. Paul stated that the law was given to show us how far we fall from God’s perfect standard. All humans are sinful by means of their sin nature. The **law** is designed to expose to us our sin lest we deceive ourselves.

   > C. H. Mackintosh on the law: “It was in a certain sense, like a perfect mirror let down from heaven to reveal to man his moral derangement. If I present myself with derangement habit before a mirror, it shows the derangement, but does not set it right. If I measure a crooked wall with a perfect plumb-line, it reveals the crookedness, but does not remove it. If I take out a lamp on a dark night, it reveals to me all the hindrances and disagreeables in the way, but it does not remove them. Moreover, the mirror, the plumb-line, and the lamp do not create the evils which they clearly point out. They neither create nor remove, but simply reveal. Thus it is with the law. It does not create the evil in man’s heart, neither does it remove it, but with unerring accuracy, it reveals it.”

2. In a similar manner, God uses the law as a tool to show us our **sin** sickness. But the law cannot take away our sins or make us righteous. Romans 7:13

   > [**Rom 7:13** ](verseid:45.7.13) Therefore did that which is good become *a cause* *of* death for me? May it never be! Rather it was sin, in order that it might be shown to be sin by effecting my death through that which is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful.

1. This leads us to one of our main problems in the church today. The New Testament is full of biblical instruction that contains many imperatives. In fact, the commands of the New Testament often hold believers to an even **higher** standard than the Ten Commandments do. This shows us God's justice, righteousness and holiness. God is perfectly just. 
2. All God’s commands are **good**. God wants us to keep His instructions. But in the same way the Old Testament law did not provide the Israelites with the power to keep God’s commands, yet they do not provide the believer with the necessary power to fulfill God’s will.
3. If we view our relationship with God by our ability to **obey** God’s instructions, then we too will have the same fearful response towards God that Israel had. They stood at a distance of God's presence. They trembled.
4. However, God used the Old Testament Law to help Israel recognize their sinfulness and realize their need for trusting in the coming promised Deliverer. In a similar manner, our inability as believers to obey New Testament commands and instructions should point us to **Christ** and our need to depend on Him for the power to obey. Christ is God's provision of mercy and grace in the life of the believer. 
5. Just as Peter’s self-proclaimed commitment and devotion to Christ (“*Even if I have to die with You, I will not* **deny** *You*! Mk. 14:31),” left him weeping bitterly (Matt. 26:75), so our own failure and inability to keep God’s instructions often leaves us very discouraged and disappointed in ourselves.
   1. Not until we fully understand our total inability to please God through our own **efforts** will our hearts be prepared to accept and appropriate the gospel by faith.
   2. The gospel of our salvation is Christ’s substitutionary death for our sins and subsequent resurrection on the third day. Based on the **gospel** we have sanctification in our co-crucifixion and co-resurrection with Him. In our identification with Christ the power of sin over our lives was broken.
   3. God’s grace and human effort do not **blend**. We cannot walk in a relation with a perfect God through a means he has not revealed. Romans 11:6
   4. God is perfect. He has revealed he is perfectly just through the law and especially on the cross. Yet God is perfect love and grace. He has made it clear he has made a provision for man's failure. Just like God manifested he wanted to dwell among the people in the tabernacle, he has revealed to us the way. Jesus said, I am that way to a restored friendship with the father.  This is the way God has provided for man and it is at the expense of his own Son. 
   5. God wants to be known by each of us. He has gone to great lengths to display his attributes in so many ways. It's up to us to know God, as he truly is. This is our worldview core. It will lead us to having correct values, beliefs and only this will result in true conduct. Not the other way around. 

Heb 10:19-25